Add readme and contributor file to UI (#142)
open-edge-platform/geti: web_ui/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to Intel Geti Web UI

**Prerequisites**: we recommend developing Geti's UI locally using node v22.12.0 and npm v10.9.0. You will also need to have a Geti server available. Please see our [documentation]() for instructions to install Geti on your hardware.

## Local Setup with npm 

To get started with contributing to the UI first install all node dependencies locally

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm ci
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up environment variables

Duplicate .env.example file and rename it to .env
```

Next make a `.env` file that includes a `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` variable, you copy over the `.env.example` file,
```sh
web_ui/ $ cp .env.example .env
```

By default `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` is set to `localhost:80`, assuming you have a server running on port 80. We will redirect all requests to `/api` to `localhost:80/api`.
Assuming you have your Geti server running on `localhost:80` you are now all set to start changing the Geti UI.
Start up the [Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/) dev server with,

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm run start
```

> Continue reading to learn more about our linting and testing setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project should now load correctly.

Keep reading to learn more about our linting and testing setup.
```

## Testing and Quality Control

We heavily rely on Typescript, ESLint, Jest and Playwright to make sure we don't introduce regressions as well as to help us improve the design of our code.

### Typescript

```sh
npm run test:tsc
```

Checks if there are no typescript violations. We have a relatively strict typescript configuration and also use `typescript-eslint` for some additional safeguards.

### Check lint rules

```sh
npm run test:eslint
npm run test:eslint:fix
```

Our CI uses `npm run test:eslint` to verify that no eslint rules are violated. For development we often use `npm run test:eslint:fix` to automatically fix these where possible.

#### Cyclic dependencies

In the past we've had issues where cyclic dependencies introduced build regressions, this is why we added an additional step in our CI to check for this.

> Use,

Reviewer: np: Newline here

```sh
npm run cyclic-deps-check
```

### Formatting with prettier

We use prettier to automatically format our code,

```
npm run format:check
npm run format
```

Note that `npm run format` will both check and fix any formatting issues.

### Unit testing

```sh
npm run test:unit
npm run test:unit:watch
```

Use the watch command to interactively choose the unit tests you want to run while making code changes.
Depending on your machine's memory and cpu you may want to add a `--maxWorkers` to prevent jest from using up all your system's resources,

```sh

> npm run test:unit:watch -- --maxWorkers=4

Reviewer: not sure about this one. I had random failures with it. I think the default (flagless) would be more appropriate

Reviewer: We can also use a percentage to be fully safe. Since workers = #cores, we can just tell the user to use maxWorkers=50% just to be safe, but that it can be removed for 100% usage (at their own discretion :D )

Author: For me the main issue I sometimes face when running it without `maxWorkers` that it will sometimes hog all of my RAM, especially if I already have half a lot of my RAM being consumed by other processes.
Setting a percentage could help but it could still consume more RAM than I'd like.

The real solution for this would be to improve the memory consumption of our unit tests, but I guess that will require more effort.

## Local Setup with npm 

To get started with contributing to the UI first install all node dependencies locally

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm ci
```
## Setting up environment variables

Duplicate .env.example file and rename it to .env
Next make a `.env` file that includes a `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` variable, you copy over the `.env.example` file,
```sh
web_ui/ $ cp .env.example .env
```

Our proxy will redirect all `/api` requests  to `localhost:80/api` assuming your `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` is set to `localhost:80`. Update this variable with your server address.
Assuming you have your Geti server running on `localhost:80` you are now all set to start changing the Geti UI.
Start up the [Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/) dev server with,

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm run start
```

The project should now load correctly.

Keep reading to learn more about our linting and testing setup.

## Testing and Quality Control

We heavily rely on Typescript, ESLint, Jest and Playwright to make sure we don't introduce regressions as well as to help us improve the design of our code.

### Typescript

> 

Reviewer 2: Thanks for your work on this, Mark!

For developers unfamiliar with the web-UI making changes in a different component, what's the recommended way to ensure their changes haven't introduced any regressions in Web-UI?

Given the existing Makefile structure and approach that cascades targets to component Makefiles, could we consider implementing [test targets](https://github.com/open-edge-platform/geti/blob/ef7c32d30f23ccd077dea8c2bb39a6c4462bd120/web_ui/Makefile#L16-L25) (perhaps wrapping npm commands) to easily trigger web-UI tests when running tests for the entire platform? This would be particularly helpful for external contributors and non-UI specialists.

#### Cyclic dependencies

In the past we've had issues where cyclic dependencies introduced build regressions, this is why we added an additional step in our CI to check for this.

```sh
npm run cyclic-deps-check
```

### Formatting with prettier

We use prettier to automatically format our code,

```
npm run format:check
npm run format
```

Note that `npm run format` will both check and fix any formatting issues.

### Unit testing

```sh
npm run test:unit
npm run test:unit:watch
```

Use the watch command to interactively choose the unit tests you want to run while making code changes.
Depending on your machine's memory and cpu you may want to add a `--maxWorkers` to prevent jest from using up all your system's resources,

```sh
npm run test:unit:watch -- --maxWorkers=4
```

### Component testing

We rely on [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) for our component tests. 
There are two ways with which you can run these: using a dev server with HRM or using a build server without HRM which tends to make the component tests run be faster, with the caveat that you will need to rebuild the UI files whenever you make a change,

> 1. **Dev Server**: First we start up a dev server,

Reviewer 3: AFAIK this step is optional because of our setup in playwright config. Should we mention that this step is optional?

Author: Yeah good point. I also didn't provide details yet that we always assume port 3000 is being used. Will add that.

## Local Setup with npm 

To get started with contributing to the UI first install all node dependencies locally

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm ci
```
## Setting up environment variables

Duplicate .env.example file and rename it to .env
Next make a `.env` file that includes a `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` variable, you copy over the `.env.example` file,
```sh
web_ui/ $ cp .env.example .env
```

Our proxy will redirect all `/api` requests  to `localhost:80/api` assuming your `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` is set to `localhost:80`. Update this variable with your server address.
Assuming you have your Geti server running on `localhost:80` you are now all set to start changing the Geti UI.
Start up the [Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/) dev server with,

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm run start
```

The project should now load correctly.

Keep reading to learn more about our linting and testing setup.

## Testing and Quality Control

We heavily rely on Typescript, ESLint, Jest and Playwright to make sure we don't introduce regressions as well as to help us improve the design of our code.

### Typescript

```sh

> npm run test:tsc

Reviewer 3: np. `npm run type-check`

```sh
web_ui/ $ npm ci
```
## Setting up environment variables

Duplicate .env.example file and rename it to .env
Next make a `.env` file that includes a `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` variable, you copy over the `.env.example` file,
```sh
web_ui/ $ cp .env.example .env
```

> Our proxy will redirect all `/api` requests  to `localhost:80/api` assuming your `REACT_APP_API_PROXY` is set to `localhost:80`. Update this variable with your server address/

Reviewer: np: trailing "/"
